>> Bianca Gandolfo: So we went over
what to expect at an interview.
What does the process look like.
What are some ways to do well?
What are some ways that you
might have messed up, so
that you can keep these in
mind during your interview?
So once you're actually sitting in
the seat on your on-site or maybe at your
kitchen table, if it's a phone screen,
and you're asked a specific question.
One technique that you can use
to solve it is to think about,
what intuition do I have
about interview questions and
data structures can help
me solve this problem?
So if you're asked a,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: You might be asked for
specific data structure like
reversing a linked list.
That's a classic one.
If you don't know how to do it, we'll do
it today, so that's one you need to know.
But there are other ones where,
another one we'll do today, which is,
how do you keep track of a minimum
value in a stack in constant time?
So you need to think about, okay, so
how can I reason about this problem
based on the data structures I know and
the operations I could do
on these data structures?
And so that's why we're gonna be focusing
on data structures all day today,
part of the day next time,
when we talk about trees.
So we'll do a half day of the tree data
structure, and the rest of it is just,
okay, let's do everything you
could think of with a tree.
Balance it, flip it upside down,
put in a blender, all kinds of stuff and
then the same thing with
graphs the next day.
And so
that's what we're gonna be focusing on, so
what does it, that's why you should care,
what is a data structure?
You guys should probably know
what a data structure is but
it's just an arrangement of data.
You can define a way that you
interact with this data and
the way that it's arranged in memory.
So some data structures are in
contiguous blocks of memory.
Which means they're located
next to each other.
When you think about that,
you often think about an array.
However, JavaScript don't
really work like that, but
you can think about it like that.
That's fine.
What else?
Yeah, so
then you have ordered data structures,
so data structures that
come with some order.
You have hierarchical data structures
that have parent child relationships, and
then you have complex relationships, and
so we need to represent this
somehow in our applications.
And so we can model all kinds of
real-world things using data, but
we just need to structure it
appropriately so that we can do
the particular operations on that data
structure in less than a billion years.
So searching things, sorting things,
getting particular values, these are all
kinds of things that you wanna do
all the time, but
in different scenarios, right?
You can use data structures
to model real world systems,
which we'll do a lot in the graph class.
Or even just, the DOM is a tree.
So you're traversing the DOM all the time
and you need to understand how that works,
so that you know.
Maybe you're traversing a lot of data and
you have a lot of DOM nodes.
And you have a performance bottleneck and
you want to figure out what that is.
Understanding the time complexity and how
traversing something like a tree
works will help you with that.
Here's some common interview
data structures and
kinda what they're used for.
This is very general.
So arrays and strings, you can use
them for any kind of ordered data.
Obviously, strings, we use them for
words and text, things like that.
Hash tables we tend to use
to optimize other things.
We use to optimize,
typically lookup, quick lookup,
that's what hash tables are for.
You're gonna say that
a million times today.
Linked lists, so linked lists, we use
a lot to build other data structures.
So you can use, so under the hood,
you can think of a JavScript array as
a linked list, stacks and queues are often
implemented as a linked list, hash table
collisions are handled with a linked list.
So there's a lot of linked lists
underlying other data structures.
And stacks and queues, we use stacks and
queues in a lot of creative ways,
to keep track of things as
an auxiliary data structure,
when we're solving problems,
so keep that in mind.
And so these are the things
that we're gonna cover today.
And next time we're gonna do trees and
heaps, and we're gonna talk
about arranging data in a hierarchical,
learn how to say that word
before that time, hierarchical way,
and how we can work with that.
And graphs, we're going to be modeling
complex relationships like the Internet or
the world as a map, or
all of the sand on a beach.
Things like that, simple things.